AND THE STUDY WAS JUST RELEASED
ON SHOTSPOTTER SHOWING THAT IT
DIVERTS POLICE RESOURCES AWAY
FROM CONFIRMED NINE ON ONE
EMERGENCY.
SO CAN YOU SPEAK TO THE
ADJUSTMENT FROM USING THESE
TECHNOLOGIES IN THE CITY AND
COLLABORATING WITH MSB TO
COMMUNITY BASED POLICING HERE
ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMING FROM
THAT TO WHAT WE SEE HERE?
ABSOLUTELY.
SO SO THANK YOU COUNCIL ON
THAT.
LET ME LET ME RETRACT AND GO
BACK NOT RETRACK BUT LET ME
EXPOUND UPON WHAT YOU JUST SAID
AS FAR AS TECHNOLOGY IS
CONCERNED BECAUSE IF I WASN'T
CLEAR, I WANT TO BE VERY, VERY
CLEAR THE EXAMPLES THAT I GAVE
IT'S ALWAYS IN COMMUNITY
RELATIONS THE ELEPHANT IN THE
ROOM AND EVEN THOUGH WE ARE A
LARGE AGENCY AND WE'RE
UTILIZING THAT TECHNOLOGY, WHAT
IS MOST IMPORTANT IS WHAT I
SAID IT'S NOT GOOD FOR EVERY
ONE AND EVERYONE NEEDS TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THE PROS AND
THE CONS ARE AND THE COMMUNITY
AS WELL AS ALL PARTNERS AT THE
TABLE NEED TO BE ABLE TO ASSIST
AND ASSESS EXACTLY WHAT IT IS
THAT THEY NEED.
SO WHEN YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
ONE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY, I
REALLY THINK THAT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY IS
DESIGNED TO DO.
AND I THINK BEFORE WE EVEN GET
OUT TO MICHIGAN STATE POLICE TO
COLLAB ON ANYTHING, I THINK
THAT'S A DETERMINATION AND
DECISION COLLECTIVELY AS
PARTNERS THAT WE MAKE HERE AT
HOME FIRST AND THEN WHAT WE DO
IS WE ROLL THE EXPECTATIONS AND
WE DEVELOP POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES THAT EVERYONE IS
HAPPY AND THEY CAN LIVE WITH.
AND MAKE NO MISTAKE ABOUT NO
MATTER HOW BAD IT IS OR GOOD IT
IS IN MY OPINION IT ONLY BE
USED AS AN INVESTIGATIVE TOOL
WITH LAYERS AND LAYERS
OF PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES ON
THAT.
SO THANK YOU FOR THAT.
THANK YOU.
OTHER QUESTIONS COUNCIL MEMBER
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
ONE THING WE HAVEN'T TOUCHED ON
IN THE QUESTIONS ARE POLICING
AS IT'S RELATED TO SOME OF OUR
OTHER COMMUNITY PRIORITIES,
PARTICULARLY AROUND THIS,
PARTICULARLY AROUND
SUSTAINABILITY AND
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY.
SO ONE OF THE INITIATIVES WE
HAVE IN THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
IS TO ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO BIKE
TO WALK TO AND WE'RE WORKING TO
MAKE THAT SAFER FOR EVERYONE IN
OUR COMMUNITIES.
I'M JUST CURIOUS ABOUT YOUR
EXPERIENCE WITH VISION ZERO,
YOUR EXPERIENCE WITH THINKING
ABOUT THE POLICE DEPARTMENT'S
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITY IN
TERMS OF MAKING THE STREETS
SAFER AND ON TRAFFIC SAFETY AND
MULTI-MODAL TRANSPORTATION.
OK, SO I LOVE THE CONCEPT
OF HAVING BEAT OFFICERS.
I LOVE IT WHEN I CAME INTO IT A
DAY BEFORE THE INTERVIEW
STARTED I ACTUALLY WALKED THE
NIGHT LIFE AND THAT WAS AN
EXPERIENCE FOR ME WALKING THE
NIGHTLIFE THERE AND I DO
UNDERSTAND THE CONCERNS OF OF
THE NEW LANES THAT HAVE BEEN
PLACED IN AND WHATNOT.
SO YES, TO ME THAT'S ALL ABOUT
COMMUNITY AWARENESS.
IT REALLY IS.
IT'S ABOUT DEFINING THE LINES
OF HOW WE SHOULD OPERATE IN
THOSE PARTICULAR LANES, HOW WE
SHOULD DRIVE WHEN WE'RE NEXT TO
THE LANES.
BUT MOST IMPORTANTLY WHEN I
SAID I VISITED AND DID A WALK
LAST NIGHT OR THE DAY BEFORE,
IT'S REALLY I LIKE SEEING
POLICE.
I LIKE SEEING WHERE YOU HAVE
THAT PRESENCE OF SOME TYPE I
ESPECIALLY DOWN YOUR MAJOR
THOROUGHFARES.
I JUST WANT EVERYONE TO BE SAFE
IN THAT FASHION.
AND WHEN YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
THE SAFETY, WHETHER YOU'RE ON
THE BIKE OR A SCOOTER THAT
TAKES A LOT OF COMMUNITY
CONVERSATIONS AT THAT BECAUSE
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU HAVE THE
STUDENTS, YOU KNOW HOW WE ARE
YOU KNOW THE EARPLUGS IN AND
YOU'RE GOING AND WE HAVE TO USE
TIMES TO EDUCATIONAL MOMENTS TO
REALLY GET THE MESSAGING OUT
THAT PEOPLE CAN LOSE THEIR
LIVES OUT HERE, YOU KNOW, AND
FOR PEOPLE TO SLOW DOWN RESPECT
WHAT THE BORDERS RESPECT THE
LINES, YOU KNOW AND I THINK
THAT'S MORE PUBLIC SERVICE
ANNOUNCEMENTS AND ON TRAINING
ON THAT.
SO THANK YOU.
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS
I GUESS
WE'LL GIVE YOU SOME TIME BACK
TO THE WELL, THANK YOU, SIR.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR FOR
COMING IN AND FOR FOR YOUR
INTEREST IN ANN ARBOR AND THE
CONVERSATION THAT YOU'VE HAD
WITH WITH THE COUNCIL ON THE
COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU.
IT'S BEEN MOST ENJOYABLE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
SUPER.
THANK YOU.
AND WITH THAT WE WILL WILL
DURING THE SESSION
IF YOU WISH
.
THIS IS A TIME FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT WHICH IS FOLKS COMING
TO SPEAK TO COUNSEL ABOUT
MATTERS OF INTEREST.
IT'S NOT A QUESTION ANSWER Q&A
SESSION DORIS DORIS NO ONE IN
HOUSE TO SPEAK OF PUBLIC
COMMENTS ONLINE OR THAT IS A
PUBLIC COMMENT AND THERE ARE NO
THANK YOU SEE NONPUBLIC
COMPANIES CLOSED OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS AND COUNCIL
MOTION TO ADJOURN MOVE BY HAD
ONE PERSON DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED FOR REAL